Split fallback. (#7385)
ethereum/solidity: docs/contracts/functions.rst

  not do state-changing operations, but it cannot check that the contract that will be called
  at runtime is actually of that type.

.. index:: ! receive ether function, function;receive

.. _receive-ether-function:

Receive Ether Function
======================

A contract can have exactly one ``receive`` function, declared using ``receive () external payable``.

> This function cannot have arguments, cannot return anything and has to have ``external`` visibility and ``payable`` state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function cannot have arguments, cannot return anything and must have ``external`` visibility and ``payable`` state
```

  not do state-changing operations, but it cannot check that the contract that will be called
  at runtime is actually of that type.

> .. index:: ! receive ether function, function;receive

Reviewer 2: Maybe also just `receive` as a keyword?

.. _receive-ether-function:

Receive Ether Function
======================

> A contract can have at most one ``receive`` function, declared using ``receive

Reviewer 2: Maybe better to not break the line inside ``

() external payable``.  This function cannot have arguments, cannot return
anything and must have ``external`` visibility and ``payable`` state
mutability.  It is executed on a call to the contract with empty calldata. This

> is the function that will receive plain Ether transfers.  If no such function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is the function that is executed on plain Ether transfers (e.g. via `.send()` or `.transfer()`).  If no such function
```

    before Solidity v0.4.0). So if you want your contract to receive Ether,
    you have to implement a receive ether function (using payable fallback functions for receiving Ether is not recommended).

.. warning::
    A contract without a receive ether function can receive Ether as a recipient of a `coinbase transaction` (aka `miner block reward`)
    or as a destination of a ``selfdestruct``.

    A contract cannot react to such Ether transfers and thus also cannot reject them. This is a design choice of the EVM and Solidity cannot work around it.

    It also means that ``address(this).balance`` can be higher than the sum of some manual accounting implemented in a contract (i.e. having a counter updated in the receive ether function).

::

    pragma solidity >=0.5.0 <0.7.0;

    // This contract keeps all Ether sent to it with no way
    // to get it back.
    contract Sink {
        receive() external payable { }
    }

.. index:: ! fallback function, function;fallback

.. _fallback-function:

Fallback Function
=================

A contract can have exactly one ``fallback`` function, declared using ``fallback () external [payable]``.

> This function cannot have arguments, cannot return anything and has to have ``external`` visibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function cannot have arguments, cannot return anything and must have ``external`` visibility.
```

It is executed on a call to the contract if none of the other

> functions match the given function identifier (or if no data was supplied at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
functions match the given function signature (or if no data was supplied at
```

all and there is no :ref:`receive ether function <receive-ether-function>`).

Furthermore, this function is executed whenever the contract receives plain

> Ether (without data). To receive Ether and add it to the total balance of the contract, the fallback function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ether (without data) and there is no :ref:`receive ether function <receive-ether-function>`.
To receive Ether and add it to the total balance of the contract, the fallback function
```

Author: Yeah, I seem to have missed to reword this whole paragraph...

- Calling an external function which consumes a large amount of gas
- Sending Ether

.. warning::
    Contracts that receive Ether directly (without a function call, i.e. using ``send`` or ``transfer``)
    but do not define a receive ether function or a payable fallback function
    throw an exception, sending back the Ether (this was different
    before Solidity v0.4.0). So if you want your contract to receive Ether,

>     you have to implement a receive ether function (using payable fallback functions for receiving Ether is not recommended).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    you have to implement a receive Ether function (using payable fallback functions for receiving Ether is not recommended).
```

Reviewer 2: Ah, I see that the function is always lowercase. But still, ether is a proper name and thus should be uppercase, shouldn't it?

Reviewer: Yea, wasn't sure what convention to use in this case

>     you have to implement a receive ether function (using payable fallback functions for receiving Ether is not recommended).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    you have to implement a receive ether function (using payable fallback functions for receiving Ether is not recommended because it would not fail on interface confusions).
```

.. warning::
    A contract without a receive ether function can receive Ether as a recipient of a `coinbase transaction` (aka `miner block reward`)
    or as a destination of a ``selfdestruct``.

    A contract cannot react to such Ether transfers and thus also cannot reject them. This is a design choice of the EVM and Solidity cannot work around it.

    It also means that ``address(this).balance`` can be higher than the sum of some manual accounting implemented in a contract (i.e. having a counter updated in the receive ether function).

> ::

Reviewer 2: I don't understand what this example refers to.

Reviewer: Just a general example of the function?

Reviewer: Added a line above.

    pragma solidity >=0.5.0 <0.7.0;

    // This contract keeps all Ether sent to it with no way
    // to get it back.
    contract Sink {
        receive() external payable { }
    }

.. index:: ! fallback function, function;fallback

.. _fallback-function:

Fallback Function
=================

A contract can have at most one ``fallback`` function, declared using ``fallback () external [payable]``.
This function cannot have arguments, cannot return anything and must have ``external`` visibility.
It is executed on a call to the contract if none of the other
functions match the given function signature, or if no data was supplied at
all and there is no :ref:`receive ether function <receive-ether-function>`.
The fallback function always receives data, but in order to also receive Ether
it must be marked ``payable``.

> In the worst case, the fallback function can only rely on 2300 gas being

Reviewer 2: Actually this comment should now be moved to the receive function

Reviewer: It is also there. Removed from here.

Reviewer: It is also there, this line points there.

Author: Rephrased a bit.

available (see :ref:`receive ether function <receive-ether-function>` for a brief description of the implications of this).

Like any function, the fallback function can execute complex operations as long as there is enough gas passed on to it.

.. warning::
    A ``payable`` fallback function is also executed for plain ether transfers, if no :ref:`receive ether function <receive-ether-function>`

>     is present. It is recommended to always define a receive ether function as well, if you define a payable fallback function.

Reviewer 2: Please also add the reason for this recommendation as above.

Reviewer: It is also there, this line points there.

Reviewer: To which recommendation above are you referring? If the fallback function is `payable` it won't revert.
